At this point we can have a look how we can combine gradients with background images and as a side note
I purposely delete the previous lectures and recreate a new age thing a malcontent almost each and every
time.
Because while it might seem like a waste of time I think it helps us with our muscle memory where we
can get comfortable with typing actually email as well as we assess.
I mean I might be wrong but that is my reasoning behind it.
So what we're gonna build right now.
Well like I said we will gonna delete everything that we created before just so we can get comfortable
by typing into the amounts we assess as well as we can get rid of these guys.
There's gonna be new ideas and for the new devs we're gonna have two of them.
The first one is gonna be just a let's say simple Dev just gonna say hello world for this one Let's
call this one.
I don't know.
Class and banner and now I can copy and paste this and let's say that there's going to be another div
which we're gonna have the class of header as well as this is going to say hello people.
Again not too original but I think this is gonna do.
So far so good.
We have two ideas.
What are we gonna have here.
Within our styles.
Yes.
We can first start by selecting the both of the devs and setup them in height.
I'm going to say for both devs we would want to have the main height of let's say hundreds of new heights.
This should be looking really good.
Then we're looking for the background images so we'd like to place background images on both.
And you know what.
Now let's first add it in the center again we haven't covered this technically but we're gonna say display
flex so display should be flex.
After that we have a line items in the center.
So this is gonna place it the vertical in the center.
And let me get her this guy and justify content is also gonna be center as well as text the line shouldn't
be in the center.
So in this case we're going to be placing everything in the center.
So the text is gonna be in center center.
And you know what.
Let's add font size again and with 60 pixels and color.
I don't know maybe let's try something else.
So what we're gonna have for a color.
We're gonna get.
I don't know.
Orange.
Something like this should work fine.
We will save it.
And what are we going to have next.
Now we would like to start working with a banner.
Let's say I want to say for the banner we already know that we have an option of background.
Now for the background we know that we can use the image.
And now let's again use most of the big images.
So I'm going to say Big J here.
Now let me add maybe the quotation marks and proper path here.
Let's say I'm gonna be looking for the big JP.
I'm going to save it.
And we already know that we need to add a few more properties because for now this is not going to be
working out really well.
So I'm going to say like this we're going gonna say starting with background and we're looking for what
we're looking for.
Repeat or maybe let's start with a plus size let's say size is going to be first.
We're all going to be covering so this size should cover.
Then what else we had.
And you know what.
Let's get that quotation mark.
We'll save it.
So now the size is covering and we also had background repeat.
Let's say no repeat and position is gonna be center background positioning is going to be in the center.
So so far so good.
And what else we're having.
Well I think the last one was what the attachment.
Right.
So we had background attachment and this is going to be fixed.
Awesome.
We have our setup with the banner.
Now what's next.
Well now I'd like to show you how we can work with linear gradients and what kind of issue we would
be solving.
And you know what.
I know that this is gonna be weird but this is a little bit bugging me is margins here.
So again let's do that little thing what we did with the rest of the elements so we said all the elements
it's going to have some margin of zero adding a zero and the box sizing is going to be equal to let's
say box.
So now I'm gonna get her of these margins.
Okay.
And the issue that linear gradient is gonna solve is the fact that right now if you're saying if we
would have an image you wouldn't be in some cases able to see the text.
So let's say in our case we technically could see the text but I think that if the image would be any
brighter it's gonna be much more hard to see the text.
So the solution we can do is we can place an overlay using the linear gradient.
So how this is gonna work out.
Well I'm going to show you this however I'm going to show you this on the second one on header just
so we can see the difference.
First of all and I'm also gonna show you how we can shortcut this because you're probably looking at
this and you're like well this is really annoying.
We're technically really typing for properties here with the values.
So isn't there a shorter way how we can do that.
And since it is.
Yes yes yes.
There is a shorter way.
So in this case we're gonna say her so I'm gonna say we're gonna start looking for that.
So that would be my first thing.
Again let me set up a nice curly braces.
And then what I would want for the Hatter.
Well I'm going to start the same thing but instead of right away going with an image we have an option
of adding the linear gradient.
So let's start here.
Let's say that there is gonna be a linear gradient and now I'd like to decide on a color.
Now well what kind of colors we can have I guess we can start with maybe black one.
Maybe this is gonna make this image less bright.
So we know that we can have a higher GPA than we need to have the karma.
So that would be the proper syntax.
And again another R GPA.
Before that before all the examples I was using one color.
And then there was some second color.
However if I would want let's say everything to be in the same color I can just add the same color so
I can say 0 0 0.
So that would be my black one and linear gradient here is gonna be zero point five and I can do the
same thing here.
I can say zero again comma zero and let me make this properly zero then that is gonna be my third zero
I believe and then I'm adding my fourth one zero point five.
Let me check Yeah I have five.
No I going to have one extra zero because this is technically wrapping here so now let me say it and
now I have my great color because I obviously this is exactly the same where I'm having my GPA one value
as was the second value is exactly the same.
So this is the reason why this is not starting from somewhere and ending somewhere.
Well technically it is right behind the scenes we're starting from the top but we're ending with the
bottom because we haven't set any kind of direction but since this is the same color everything's looks
the same.
Everything is unison.
Now if I'm going to change this I'm going to say zero point one.
Notice that right now it's gonna starting from the top where this will gonna be bright and then we're
heading over here where this would be darker.
But again I would want it to be the same.
Once we have added successfully our linear gradient.
Well now what.
Well now we're all gonna work with our image so we're gonna be looking for the image.
However this is important that we're adding here.
This come please don't omit the comma and then you're going to be looking for the mistake because they're
really gonna be a syntax error and here you're gonna say you are.
Since this is we're all going to be looking for damages.
Now I'm going to look for either the folder or we can maybe look for the same image just so we can see
the difference.
I think that would be actually better because that way we can see one image is not gonna have the linear
gradient.
And the second one that would have the linear gradient now the image again was big JPEG so forward slash
then we're looking for the big Jake back and now we're gonna have the image.
Now the question would be you would say well first of all you can right away see the difference.
So we have one that's gonna have no overlay.
And the second one where the text is much more clearer because we have added the overlay.
Now this obviously is not some kind of set overlay that you always need to use.
You can use whatever color you would like.
Like I said before but in my case I'm just showing you with this kind of value just to show you that
it is darker.
And again this is really up to you if you want to use the yellow color as our light you can use the
yellow color sometimes if we're going to do something like this where we have the let's say a logo and
then we're using the same overlay for this picture.
So it doesn't have to be black or white again and that's the reason why you have these are GPA values.
Now lastly I would want to show you is how we can shorten this because for now you would be thinking.
Okay so I have all this I have your l everything is working really well meaning the image but I still
need to add the cover.
No repeat center and all that because right now I have two images.
So I would like to fix that.
Now we can technically write this all out and there's nothing wrong with it but we have a shorter way.
So here we can write that the image is gonna be always in the center because we have the position of
center and you know what.
Maybe let me kind of put them in water how I am putting them here.
So we have the center then we're gonna have forward slash and the color so we can use this and then
we would need to write what we would like to do.
So I'm gonna say no repeat.
And this is gonna be fixed here like this.
And what happened.
Well we have added all these properties without writing actual the properties just by adding the values
not be careful here.
You can change this order so let's say I couldn't say no fixed and then I'm gonna write no repeat.
So this is gonna work fine.
However don't mix these two up.
Don't say it like this don't say cover and center because notice what's gonna happen.
Well the image is not going to be shown.
So these two guys if you're writing them just make sure that you're right center then we have forward
slash and then we're using the color and that way you know for sure that your image is always gonna
be shown.
And this is basically how this is gonna look like.
Let me make save and I think it looks awesome.
I think it looks really good.
And now I can see the text much more clear.